# SpotOn-Response
The goal for this project will be to create a predictive model for identifying business closures during disasters, especially those not officially reported. By analyzing reported closures, we aim to anticipate non-reporting business closures, enhance our understanding of natural disaster’s economic impact on businesses and add new features to the dataset using social vulnerability index data to build a robust model and make more accurate predictions.

## Data Sources:
The project delves into Google My Business data from 2020 to 2023, examining businesses affected by hurricanes. With 61 columns of information, it details addresses, timings, closures, category of stores, popularity of businesses and hurricane-triggered temporary shutdowns. The primary focus is predicting closures. To augment analysis, Social Vulnerability Index (SVI) data is integrated, encompassing economic, demographic, transportation, and housing factors. SVI aims to deepen insights into area vulnerabilities, enhancing predictive models and evaluating hurricane impacts on businesses comprehensively. This holistic approach merges Google My Business data with SVI metrics to understand location sensitivity and resilience better. The goal is to fortify predictions, gain deeper hurricane impact insights, and assess variations across different areas more effectively.
Google My Business data encompassed diverse characteristics of stores within a geographical location, along with the status of each store. The attributes included the location of the stores (Address, Zip Code, Latitude and Longitude) , the popularity of the stores (Rating, Number of Reviews, Number of pictures posted), the type of stores (category of the store, verified status of stores) and the timings/schedule of the stores.
We have enriched the dataset using the Social Vulnerability data, which gives information about the social vulnerability of the area in which the stores are located. We have used Social Vulnerability Index Rating, the Risk rating and the Resilience rating of the locations in the model.

## Performance Measurements:
For our problem, we are trying to predict the temporary closure of stores during a disaster to help consumers or customers find what they need (essentials) during a disaster. The risk to life for a customer going out during a disaster is very high. Therefore, the model should not predict a store is open when in actuality it is closed. That means, the false negative predictions from the model should be lower. Hence, we can use the recall metric as our evaluating metric.
We have built our model to optimize recall metric so that the false negatives are minimized. So, the higher the recall of our model, the better the model is at predicting and lower the risk of people going out and finding out the stores are not actually open.
